hi guys so I've set it to do a review on
ham and rye by Charles Bukowski which I
just finished yesterday Oh ham on rye I
really enjoyed it I didn't think that I
would enjoy it half as much as I did but
I ended up loving it its first of all
it's written by Charles Bukowski and I
don't know I think everyone knows at
least a little bit about this author I
knew a tiny little bit about him I'd
read quotes by him and I knew that he
was one of my friends favorites and I
kind of knew his style I knew that it
was very dark and cold but also like
very bitter this book was written in
1982 I think and it is sort of semi
memoir and what I mean by this is that
it's not like outwardly a memoir the
character the main character has a
different name but it's very similar in
the sense the protagonists name is Henry
Chinaski while the author's name is
Charles Bukowski can see a little bit of
similarity there and I went into reading
this book not knowing that it was semi
autobiographical and I think that's
something that I liked about it so if
you're planning on reading it I've
already told you but whilst I was
reading it I figured that it should
probably be a sort of memoir because
just the similarities in the name and
the little things that I knew about
Charles Bukowski --zz life it kind of
all tied together so this book is a sort
of coming-of-age novel it's it's a very
dark and bitter coming-of-age novel but
I think that's what makes it even more
interesting the the scenery for this
book is Los Angeles in the Great
Depression starts with Henry's character
the main character I don't know how old
he is in the beginning I think he's sort
of like seven or eight or something you
read about his father's abuse towards
him and his wife in a sense
and you just you you end up hating every
single character because you're seeing
it from Henry's eyes and Henry is a
super cynical kid since he's like seven
years old he realized that he hates
everything and truly everything in his
life that could go wrong kind of goes
wrong and it's sort of is because he's
so bitter and so cynical but also you
could say that he's bitter in cynical
because his life is sometimes and
you know his it starts with kind of like
the abuse that he receives from his
father and the abuse that he receives
from the people around him because he's
different in a way and there's a moment
where I felt truly connected to to Henry
janowski's character because he feels
like he's trapped in this world where
he's supposed to be free um he ends up
going college because he doesn't have
anything else to do and he can't hold on
to a job and he just he drinks all the
time because it's the only thing that
makes him happy sort of and you you
learned that he likes to write but you
don't really know exactly what he writes
or if that makes him happy even and um
you kind of see the growth of this
character that is so just in shock of
the world like he doesn't care for
anything that the world has to offer and
you see that he's intelligent he could
probably get really far in life but he's
just Lizzie because nothing seems worth
his time and it gets to a point where
I'm reading this book about this super
cynical alcoholic kid and he's totally
unhappy but he's so witty and so
intelligent and you kind of feel a sort
of familiarity with him there's a really
amazing part that I just felt like I
loved and that was um when he's in
college at this time World War 1 is
about to start and you kind of have that
sort of buzz in the in the background
about it he's living in
America so he lives in a different in a
different scenario everyone is liberal
everyone is like against Nazis and um
since everyone is against Nazis he
decides to go like against the current
and start saying things random things in
class that are pro-nazi or in a sense
just against liberalism and it's just
hilarious that he says things like oh
yeah I was just sitting in class and I
wanted to piss off the teacher so I just
said I don't know like these really long
phrases entwined with Awesome words that
just left with leave liberals and would
leave me kind of baffled and what he's
saying and the intelligence that he's
burning out of his mouth but at the same
time he doesn't give a about what
he's talking about he doesn't really
care about anything and he starts this
sort of a following of like pro-nazi
like college students and it's all
started because he started to just go
against the teacher isn't go against the
authority figures in in the school and
it just it that's that's likely the
definition of Henry Chinaski and it's
just going against the current for
absolutely no reason making perfect
sense but not caring enough to do
anything about it just like talking
about it and leaving it there and I I
love that about him this book I thought
was extremely humorous despite all these
awful scenes of abuse and just
disgusting details um despite all of
that or you know because of all of that
really this book tends to kind of bring
a smile to your face
well kind of feeling a little bit sick
in the inside so you're laughing you're
laughing at what he's saying at the same
time you're feeling extremely bad for
him and everyone around him you are
feeling anxious for what he's doing but
you know he kind of sabotages himself
and I some think that's something that I
can feel very identified with it was my
first Bukowski I asked around a little
bit and people told me that this was
like the best book to start Bukowski
with and I haven't read anything else
but I'm pretty certain that I would
recommend this is the first Bukowski
because it is just good like if it is
somewhat of a memoir it can give you a
little bit of background to Charles
Bukowski and I know that some of his
later novels are like very old man dark
and bitter and I guess this can give you
a little bit of background to why he's
that way because frankly if you lived
through what Henry Chinaski lived you'd
probably end up being really bitter as
well and I haven't truly recommend it as
my first recommendation on a philia
reads read Haman are I totally recommend
and yeah tell me what you guys think
about it and if you've read it before I
don't know a lot of people who read it
so please tell me your opinions by